#20285 - Support multiple protocols per application service via port mappings (#22692)
netbox-community/netbox: docs/models/ipam/service.md

A service or protocol name.

### Port Mappings

The protocols and ports on which the service runs. A service may expose the same port on multiple protocols — for example, DNS listening on both `tcp/53` and `udp/53`. In the UI, ports for a given protocol may be entered together using commas and/or hyphens (e.g. `80,8001-8003`).

In the REST and GraphQL APIs, port mappings are represented as a list of `{protocol, ports}` objects — one entry per protocol:

```json
[
  {"protocol": "tcp", "ports": [80, 443]},
  {"protocol": "udp", "ports": [53]}
]
```

!!! note "Changed in NetBox v4.7"

>     The single-protocol `protocol` and `ports` fields have been replaced by the unified `port_mappings` field (which supports multiple protocols per service, in the grouped form shown above). For backward compatibility, the REST and GraphQL APIs still expose the legacy `protocol` and `ports` fields, and the REST API still accepts them on write as an alternative to `port_mappings`. They are populated for single-protocol services; a service with multiple protocols cannot be represented in the legacy format and returns `null` for both, while a service with no mappings returns `protocol: null` and `ports: []`. In other words, `ports: null` specifically signals "multiple protocols — read `port_mappings` instead." **These legacy fields are deprecated and will be removed in a future release; use `port_mappings` instead.**

Reviewer: Let's go ahead and lock in removal of the backward compatibility for v5.0.
```suggestion
    The single-protocol `protocol` and `ports` fields have been replaced by the unified `port_mappings` field (which supports multiple protocols per service, in the grouped form shown above). For backward compatibility, the REST and GraphQL APIs still expose the legacy `protocol` and `ports` fields, and the REST API still accepts them on write as an alternative to `port_mappings`. They are populated for single-protocol services; a service with multiple protocols cannot be represented in the legacy format and returns `null` for both, while a service with no mappings returns `protocol: null` and `ports: []`. In other words, `ports: null` specifically signals "multiple protocols — read `port_mappings` instead." **These legacy fields are deprecated and will be removed in NetBox v5.0; use `port_mappings` instead.**
```
